//this is a ditto copy of a Reddit Post by u/Kabathebear in r/learnprogramming
//link -> https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/x2ewxi/all_code_smells_oneliner_guide/
//Iam pastebinning it here just in case if the post goes down

Code smells are certain indicators of problems in code and express that something is wrong. It is important to pay attention to code smells.

These aren't dogmas but indicate that values may be under threat.
Values in terms of evolvability, correctness, production efficiency, and continuous improvement.

It is important to take action if a code smell makes code unchangeable.
Hence I made a list from A to Z to be used to quickly identify code smells.

Afraid To Fail
When you add extra checks to a method (outside its scope) to avoid exceptions.

Solution: A method that can fail should fail explicitly.

Alternative Classes with Different Interfaces
Two separate classes provide one or many method/s for an identical action.

Solution: Don't Repeat Yourself by merging or outsourcing.

Base Class Depends on Subclass
If a child class adapts, the parent class needs adaptation too.

Solution: Leave the kids alone. If they change, parents stay the same.

Binary Operator in Name
When your function name combines two operations in the name, it won't stick to the SRP.

Solution: Each function shall do one thing and do it well.

Boolean Blindness
Boolean arguments of a function fool you about what the value true
or false
truly does.

Solution: Don't create functions that accept boolean parameters.

Callback Hell
Callbacks are intentionally good, but chaining them results in something bad.

Solution: Make small interchangeable steps to gain a sequence of actions.

Clever Code
Showing off your skills can quickly end in over-complicated code, even for you.

Solution: Keep it simple and focus on readability.

Combinatorial Explosion
It occurs whenever code does almost the same, often in large if-else
branches.

Solution: If code does almost do the same, separate and delegate.

Complicated Boolean Expression
Combining multiple boolean expressions disguised as function names to a larger combinatorial condition.

Solution: Don’t come up with function names like bottle.consumed(), but with something like should_be_consumed(bottle).

Complicated Regex Expression
Leave the code with complex regex-patterns nobody can comprehend.

Solution: Provide examples in a comment near your regex pattern.

Conditional Complexity
Logic blocks with if statements require you to consider all possible paths ending in a memory game.

Solution: Split different paths into multiple subpaths into distinctive classes.

Data Clump
When you think a couple of variables isn't worth creating a separate instance.

Solution: Create a separate class to combine multiple single variables or introduce a Parameter Object.

Dead Code
Often occurs in large if-else blocks ending up with so many paths that nobody remembers how they're used anymore.

Solution: Dead code is already saved in the Git-History; delete it immediately.

Divergent Change
When a class grows and becomes complex, it's easy to overlook the fact that it already implements multiple responsibilities.

Solution: Divide into multiple classes or create an outside function.

Dubious Abstraction
It's challenging to tell if a given name for abstraction is right.

Solution: Functions Should Descend Only One Level of Abstraction, Code at Wrong Level of Abstraction, Choose Names at the Appropriate Level of Abstraction — Robert C. Martin

Duplicated Code
There's nothing worse than redundant code. Sorry, my bad. Dead code is worse.

Solution: Don't Repeat Yourself***.***

Fallacious Comment
Explaining the WHAT in a comment traverses to a lie over time.

Solution: Comment only the WHY of your code.

Fallacious Method Name
If you name a method/function a certain way but it doesn't do what it was named for. For example, getBeer() but does return a soda-water 😕

Solution: If your function is named a certain way to fulfill the promise made by that name.

Fate over Action
Whenever you assume that data objects can't be changed by anyone except your own actions in code.

Solution: Don't depend on the object's state because it may be mutated from elsewhere.

Feature Envy
Methods inside a class reach out to other classes besides their own instantiation.

Solution: Methods are made to guarantee to interact with the object itself.

Flag Argument
An entire operation of a function/method depends on a flag parameter? Congratulations! You have combined two functions into one.

Solution: Split the function into separate ones.

Global Data
Having a global scope available for everyone turns your entire application into one global scope.

Solution: Encapsulate your application into various data sections and only as many links as needed.

Hidden Dependencies
Calling a method of a class that resolves hidden dependencies.

Solution: Use the Dependency Inversion and let the caller deliver all needed goods.

Imperative Loops
They are hard to read and error-prone, especially for rising IndexErrors.

Solution: Use pipelines such as array methods of JavaScript.

Inappropriate Static
When a method accepts arguments of polymorphic behavior (classes), but it is defined as static.

Solution: Statics should be reserved for behavior that will never change.

Incomplete Library Class
When a library does not fulfill 100% of your needs, you tend to abandon it and rewrite the entire functionality.

Solution: Take what is there and extend it to get 100% of what you need.

Inconsistent Names
Different synonyms for one and the same word. For example, car, vehicle, automobile.

Solution: Make one name and make the entire team stick to it.

Inconsistent Style
Every team member has their own coding style, not agreeing to a convention.

Solution: Create a coding convention and stick to it.

Indecent Exposure
Showing private internals of a class to the outside world.

Solution: Expose only what's truly needed to interact with a class.

Insider Trading
Modules & classes know too much about each other, just like curious neighbors.

Solution: Modules & classes should concentrate on the bare minimum to work together.

Large Class
Putting code in an existing class rather than creating a new one when the new logic adds another responsibility.

Solution: Keep classes small and responsible for a single thing.

Lazy Element
Now you've gone too far in separating principles. If your element does too little to stand on its own, it is probably better to include it in another entity.

Solution: Small entities are good, but getting too granular is bad.

Long Method
They are harder to understand, harder to change or extend, and developers are truly reading more lines than they write.

Solution: Keep methods short and precise.

Long Parameter List
0–2 arguments 👌 3 arguments 🙅 4 arguments ☠️.

Solution: Stick to 0 -2 arguments to ensure a clean function/method and also stick to the SRP***.***

Magic Number
Random values like 1000
, 99
used anywhere to compare certain conditions make you ask yourself, "What the 🦆?!".

Solution: Create constants like MAX_STUDENTS_IN_ROOM to give those numbers a meaning everybody can comprehend.

Message Chain
Collecting data to get information while addressing a single function call.

Solution: Don't ask for manipulation. Provide everything needed and give a command to manipulate.

Middle Man
If your class delegates requests to other classes, then you made a middle man.

Solution: Keep the number of middlemen as little as possible.

Mutable Data
Mutable data can cause unexpected failures in the remaining code by causing hard-to-spot bugs because it occurs in rare situations.

Solution: Don't use data that might change, freeze it, or make copies. Overall avoid references to mutable data.

Null Check
When your code is peppered with null or undefined checks.

Solution: Create a specific class that is being handled if null or undefined occurs. One reason to fail and one handler to handle.

Obscured Intent
Sometimes, you forget about something you see as obvious is very complex to others, especially when you intentionally compact the code to make it seem brighter than it is.

Solution: Write clear & intentional code that expresses itself. Don't write compressed code for fewer lines.

Oddball Solution
Different parts of code solve the same problem differently.

Solution*: Use interfaces to unify a single solution.*

Parallel Inheritance Hierarchies
You get this when an inheritance tree depends on another inheritance tree by composition, and you need to make a subclass for another class to create a subclass for one.

Solution: Create a single hierarchy by moving parts of your "duplicated" classes.

Primitive Obsession
If you have a string or an integer that mimics being an abstract concept, like an object.

Solution: Create proper objects and handle them like objects.

Refused Bequest
Inheriting all from a parent class but only using a subset of functionality.

Solution*: When inheriting, make sure to take over all functionality and extend on that. Otherwise, you are better off outsourcing the subset.*

Required Setup or Teardown Code
When creating an instance and it needs to be initialized further.

Solution*: Take every functionality into account and initialize it when an instance is created.*

Shotgun Surgery
Unnecessarily changing multiple classes for a single modification.

Solution*: If something has to be changed, there should be only one place to be modified.*

Side Effects
Additional actions are executed that aren't explicitly related to the function.

Solution: Keep functions/methods having a single responsibility. Doing only one thing at once.

Special Case
Stumbling upon a very complex if
statement or value checking before any processing begins.

Solution: Proper handling of complex if-statements or assuring default values.

Speculative Generality
Despite your best intentions, you created extra features to prepare for the future, but those features never turn out to be useful.

Solution: Only code what you'll need to solve the problem today.

Status Variable
If you find a status variable that stores information about what's happening and is used as a switch later.

Solution: Use built-in enumerates or methods.

Temporary Field
When a temporary variable refers to one that is only used in a certain situation. For example, saving day, month, year plus a combination of them in separate fields.

Solution: Skip using temporary fields for decluttering classes. Use a method to get a concatenated version of multiple fields.

Tramp Data
Whenever data gets passed through a long chain of calls isn't consistent with what each routine interface presents.

Solution: Keep the functionality as close to the data as possible.

Type Embedded in Name
Variables that give a strong hint about their data type.

Solution: The type annotation or type hint doesn't need to be mentioned twice through the variable name.

Uncommunicative Name
The naming of variables, functions & classes that are misleading.

Solution: You want a name that's meaningful and not misleading.

Vertical Separation
When the creation and usage of variables are detached by declaring them in one place way before the main logic starts.

Solution: Code with well-written methods & classes should have collapsible places that are good enough to organize.

"What" Comment
There's a good chance that a comment describing what's going on in a particular section is trying to hide some other Code Smell.

Solution: Don't create "What" comments and be a particular skeptic when reading the code below a "What" comment.